\section{Element objects - ELE}

In this section, the details of the implementation of the element 
objects are described. The relationship of element objects is shown 
in Fig. \ref{fig:ele_objects}. For the simulation of each process in 
a coupled problem or each single problem, only an instance of  mesh 
object (ELE-MSH) and an instance of finite element object are 
required. Geometric element object (ELE-GEO) manufacture the 
foundation of this concept (section \ref{sec:ele_geo}). Meshes 
(ELE-MSH) are formed based from geometric element entities (section 
\ref{sec:ele_msh}). Finite element object (ELE-FEM) basically 
compute the finite element matrices for different PDE types and 
geometric element types automatically  using the corresponding shape 
functions (section \ref{sec:ele_fem}).  ELE-PCS object assemble the 
equation systems for the problem type, i.e. THM coupled ELE-PCS 
object problems for porous media (section \ref{sec:ele_pcs}). 
\rev{To this purpose, objects  ELE-PCS and ELE-FEM and have a 
pointer member pointing to each other. When an instance of ELE-PCS 
object for a process in a coupled problem or a single problem is 
constructed, an instance of ELE-FEM object is created accordingly. 
During the construction of the instance of ELE-FEM object, the 
degree of freedom of the problem is initialized by the type the 
ELE-PCS instance, i.e. the specific problem. This means only one 
instance of ELE-PCS and one instance of ELE-FEM  have to been 
created for each process in a coupled problems or for each single 
problem. Moreover, ELE-FEM has a pointer member pointing to 
interpolation function. This member is initialized by the messages 
from the instance of ELE-PCS and each instance of ELE-GEO for each 
finite element during the local assembly. Such initialization 
guarantees that interpolation function and its derivatives are set 
properly for each geometric element for a process or a problem. 

\begin{figure}[!htb]
\centering
\includegraphics[scale=0.8]{figures/ele_relation.eps}
\caption{Relationship of element objects} 
\label{fig:ele_objects}
\end{figure}

In general, messages of the type of a process a problem and the type 
element determines the pointers to the corresponding interpolation 
function and its derivatives of an instance of ELE-FEM.   An 
instance of ELE-FEM has a pointer to  ELE-GEO as a member too. When 
local assembly comes to an element, or an instance of ELE-GEO, the 
ELE-FEM instance have the ELE-GEO pointer point to the element and 
initialized its numerical methods such as interpolation, Guass 
integration accordingly. This is very helpful for the finite element 
analysis of consolidation in porous media, in which, the Talyor-Hood 
finite element spaces, i.e. linear interpolation for flow process 
and quadratic interpolation for deformation process, is required for 
stability reason\cite{LeSch:98}. In default, the order of 
interpolation of each element is linear and the nodes of an element 
are its geometrical vertices.  If the high order interpolation is 
required by a process or a problem, additional nodes are created for 
each instance of ELE-FEM during the construction of the mesh.} The 
idea of this concept is, that specific process-related information 
are introduced as late as possible to keep the software concept as 
flexible as possible.

\input{351_geo_obj}
\input{352_fem_obj}
\input{353_pcs_obj}
\input{354_msh_obj}
